and when the seventh month had come and
the children of Israel were in the
cities the people gathered together as
one man to Jerusalem then joshua the son
of josedech and his brethren the priests
and zerubbabel the son of shealtiel and
his brethren arose and built the altar
of the God of Israel to offer burnt
offerings on it as it is written in the
law of Moses the man of God no fear had
come upon one because of the people of
those countries they set the altar on
its basis and they offered burnt
offerings on it to the Lord but the
morning and evening burnt offerings they
also kept the Feast of the Tabernacles
as it is written and offered the daily
burnt offerings in the number required
by ordinance for each day afterwards
they offered the regular burnt offering
and those four new moons and for all the
appointed feasts of the Lord that were
consecrated and those of everyone who
willingly offered a free will offering
to the Lord from the first day of the
seventh month they began to offer burnt
offerings to the law although the
foundation of the temple of the Lord had
not been laid they also gave money to
the Masons and the carpenters and food
drink and oil to the people of Sidon and
tyre to bring cedar logs from Lebanon to
the sea to Joppa according to the
permission which they had from Cyrus
king of Persia now in the second month
of the second year of their coming to
the house of God at Jerusalem suribabu
the son of shealtiel joshua the son of
josedech and the rest of their brethren
the priests and the Levites and all
those who had come out of the captivity
to jerusalem began work and appointed
the leaflets from twenty years old and
above to oversee the work of the house
of the law
then Joshua with his sons and brothers
kadmiel with his sons and the sons of
Judah arose as one to oversee those
working on the house of God the sons of
henna dad with their sons and their
brethren the Levites when the builders
laid the foundation of the temple of the
Lord the priest stood in their apparel
with trumpets and the Levites the sons
of Asaph with symbols to praise the Lord
according to the ordinance of David king
of Israel and they sang responsively
praising and giving thanks to the Lord
for he is good for his mercy endures
forever toward Israel then all the
people shouted with a great shout when
they praise the Lord because the
foundation of the house of the law was
laid but many of the priests and Levites
and heads of the father's houses old men
who had seen the first temple wept with
a loud voice when the foundation of this
temple was laid before their eyes yet
many shouted aloud for joy so that the
people could not discern the noise of
the shout of joy from the noise of the
weeping of the people for the people
shouted with a loud shout and the sound
was heard afar off
[Music]